README.md, before:

Start date: July 9, 2022

I don't expect this project to take very long as I feel that I understand the concept of forms pretty well. However, it has been some time since I've constructed a site from scratch using HTML and CSS. I have developed my skills in all languages, but I struggle when faced with the blank page. For this project, because I'm confident in my ability to complete it without guidance, I am only going to use readable sources to help, but I will not watch any videos or anything that might give me an answer too quickly. I just want to see how far I can get by being resourceful, but not asking for the answer. 

It shouldn't be hard at all. I just might slip up on how to set up the HTML and properly styling the CSS, but the form section I am not worried about at all. There is minimal to no Javascript used in this project. 

First step: set up the bones of the HTML from top to bottom in a simple way so I won't have to change too much. 
1) add all sections and text in HTML
2) style the page to be positioned how it should
3) edit html to make css styling easier/sensible
4) add form functionality
5) style form
6) repeat styles 2 & 3 until satisfied.

Obstacles I see immediately:
1) how should i make the side panel with the picture and logo? How would that get styled in CSS? is it a header, footer, else, or doesn't matter?
2) there are picture credits at the bottom of the picture panel. I've done this before, but never specifically on one side. This shouldn't be a problem.
3) I've never added a picture onto a picture. (the logo on top of the background)

It seems that the only thing that might take some time is the picture side panel area. I'll start with a general google search to see how to get started.

COMMIT CHECKPOINTS (should do more, but this is a reminder):
initial commit: set up html and css files with bare minimum & saved README
1) after completing the first html round
2) after first css round
3) pictures added
3) each major or multiple functioning edits to html or css
4) form fields added
5) form validation added
6) final styling or clean up (check functionality again.)


Commit #1 07/09:
I spent quite a while figuring out the best way to display an image on a sidebar. I found many different ways that worked for different kinds of images. Because I didn't decide on a certain theme for this website, and it's mostly about the form and overall composition, I took the easiest route: putting an image as the background for a div and choosing an image that looks acceptable at any dimensions.

I took a break, came back and added the html and a bit of css just so I could see all the elements I added and get an idea for how things will need to be styled.

I think technically skipped commits 1-3 because they happened simulanteously and there was less html/css to do than expected. First commit starts at step 3. I will go straight to adding the form validation then tackle the css tomorrow since that will honestly be the bulk of this project.

Commit message:

Second commit. added form validation before css. updated README

README.md, after:

Start date: July 9, 2022

I don't expect this project to take very long as I feel that I understand the concept of forms pretty well. However, it has been some time since I've constructed a site from scratch using HTML and CSS. I have developed my skills in all languages, but I struggle when faced with the blank page. For this project, because I'm confident in my ability to complete it without guidance, I am only going to use readable sources to help, but I will not watch any videos or anything that might give me an answer too quickly. I just want to see how far I can get by being resourceful, but not asking for the answer. 

It shouldn't be hard at all. I just might slip up on how to set up the HTML and properly styling the CSS, but the form section I am not worried about at all. There is minimal to no Javascript used in this project. 

First step: set up the bones of the HTML from top to bottom in a simple way so I won't have to change too much. 
1) add all sections and text in HTML
2) style the page to be positioned how it should
3) edit html to make css styling easier/sensible
4) add form functionality
5) style form
6) repeat styles 2 & 3 until satisfied.

Obstacles I see immediately:
1) how should i make the side panel with the picture and logo? How would that get styled in CSS? is it a header, footer, else, or doesn't matter?
2) there are picture credits at the bottom of the picture panel. I've done this before, but never specifically on one side. This shouldn't be a problem.
3) I've never added a picture onto a picture. (the logo on top of the background)

It seems that the only thing that might take some time is the picture side panel area. I'll start with a general google search to see how to get started.

COMMIT CHECKPOINTS (should do more, but this is a reminder):
initial commit: set up html and css files with bare minimum & saved README
1) after completing the first html round
2) after first css round
3) pictures added
4) each major or multiple functioning edits to html or css
5) form fields added
6) form validation added
7) final styling or clean up (check functionality again.)


Commit #1 07/09:
I had never made a sidebar for a page before, so I took the easiest route: putting an image as the background for a div and choosing an image that looks acceptable at any dimensions.

I added the html and a bit of css just so I could see all the elements I added and get an idea for how things will need to be styled.

I think I technically skipped commits 1-3 because they happened simulanteously and there was less html/css to do than expected. Next commit will be after form validation is completed before css.

Commit #2 07/09:
Added validation to the form. It's getting late, so I will finish this tomorrow. All I see left is styling with css and maybe using javascript to compare the passwords. I could also have colors change if the input is valid/invalid and add a password checklist so the 'user' knows what the password requirements are before inputting. The next commit will be after the css styling is majorly done. So far, this is a pretty easy project it is reminding me of the fundamentals.
